As Buffalo Wild Wings continues its power struggle with the activist investor Marcato Capital, CEO Sally Smith says the problem isn't the chain — it's the industry.
"Casual-dining restaurants face a uniquely challenging market today," Smith wrote in a letter to shareholders on Tuesday.

Smith outlined three of the biggest problems plaguing restaurants, and especially casual-dining chains, in 2017: changing customer tastes, slowing mall traffic, and declining sports viewership.

"Millennial consumers are more attracted than their elders to cooking at home, ordering delivery from restaurants and eating quickly, in fast-casual or quick-serve restaurants," Smith wrote. "Mall traffic has slowed. And, surprisingly, television viewership of sporting events (important for us, especially) is down."

The letter attempted to persuade shareholders to vote for board members nominated by Buffalo Wild Wings and not by Marcato, which has been battling for control of Buffalo Wild Wings' board since August, arguing that leadership at the wings-and-beer chain is misguided and lacking in experience.

Buffalo Wild Wings certainly isn't the only casual-dining chain struggling to keep up in 2017. Brands such as TGI Fridays, Ruby Tuesday, and Applebee's have faced sales slumps and dozens of restaurant closures.

"It's tough to find one [casual-dining chain] that's doing alright," Wedbush analyst Colin Radke told Business Insider in March.

Millennials are killing the beer industry

Millennials aren't drinking enough beer to keep brands afloat.
According to CNBC, Goldman Sachs downgraded both Boston Beer Company and Constellation Brand on the data that younger consumers aren't drinking as much alcohol as older generations, and the ones who do prefer wine and spirits.

"We view the shift in penetration and consumption trends as driven by a shift in preferences in the younger cohorts," Chief Analyst Freda Zhuo wrote.

Beer penetration fell 1% from 2016 to 2017 in the US market, while both wine and spirits were unmoved, according to Nielsen ratings.

Goldman Sachs now expects the overall beer market in the US to decline by 0.7% in 2017. It downgraded Boston Beer Company from "neutral" to "sell" and Constellation Brands from "buy" to "neutral."



Millennials are killing the beer industry with their rosé obsession

Millennials are increasingly swapping a can of beer for a glass of rosé wine.
The rosé category reached a valuation of $389 million in January, Bloomberg reported, based on Nielsen data. Rosé consumption increased 57% in the last 52 weeks in dollar terms, while beer dropped 0.6%.

While the amount of rosé sold in the US is clearly tiny compared to the $37 billion beer industry, the plucky wine upstart's success is yet another chink in the armor of the reigning American alcoholic champion.

In late July, Goldman Sachs downgraded both Boston Beer Company and Constellation Brand based on the data that younger consumers prefer wine and spirits to beer, as well as the fact that they're drinking less alcohol than older generations more generally.

Beer penetration fell 1% from 2016 to 2017 in the US market, while both wine and spirits were unmoved, according to Nielsen ratings.

While some argue that calling a 1% drop in penetration a beer-industry homicide case is an overreaction, small shifts have a huge financial impact on beer industry giants. Beer already lost 10% of market share to wine and hard liquor from 2006 to 2016. And, at least some beer industry insiders are thinking of the rise of wine and spirits in even more dramatic terms.



"This armada of boats is coming across the Atlantic to crush us and we are shooting each other with, you know, muskets and slingshots," Walt Dickinson, a cofounder of craft brewer Wicked Weed, which was acquired by AB InBev in May, recently said of squabbles between independent brewers and giants of the industry.

According to Dickinson, the "armada of boats" preparing to crush the beer industry is wine and spirits — an opinion shared by a number of other craft brewers who appeared in an AB InBev video on the topic.

Just two years ago, the beer industry only had to fight the rise of liquor, red wine, and white wine. Now, it has another problem: rosé.

SEE ALSO: Buffalo Wild Wings just opened a new type of store to win back millennials who are ditching the chain



Millennials are killing the paper napkin industry.
Younger consumers are opting instead for paper towels at the dinner table, The Washington Post reports.

The Post points to a survey conducted by Mintel (the same company that discovered millennials find cereal too much work to eat) from last month, which highlights that only 56% of shoppers said that they bought napkins in the past six months.

However, 86% surveyed said they had purchased paper towels.

Consumers view napkins as a less economical choice than paper towels, according to the survey. As consumer goods company Georgia Pacific marketing director Dan Nirenberg told the Post, "it's one less thing to buy."

The Washington Post notes several other reasons for the decline of the napkin.

For one, paper towels are more functional than napkins, thanks to their ability to clean up messes of all sizes. Additionally, the Post notes how fewer millennials are eating meals at home, which is also contributing to the decline of napkin purchases.



Millennials have a new attitude about cleavage that's forcing 'breastaurant' Hooters to close locations and change its strategy


Millennials are less interested in breasts than their elders.
People from the age of 18 to 24 are 19% less likely to search for breasts on pornographic website Pornhub compared to all other age groups, according to an analysis conducted by the website.

For comparison, Pornhub visitors from the ages of 55 to 64 are 17% more likely to search for breast-related content.

Millennials' pornography preferences seem to be part of a wider trend.

"At the moment, larger breasts are out, though I'm sure they'll come back," Sarah Pedersen, professor of communications and media at Robert Gordon University, told Playboy. "We tend to react to what went before."

For "breastaurants" like Hooters and Twin Peaks, a loss of interest in breasts is bad for business. The number of Hooters locations in the US has dropped by more than 7% from 2012 to 2016, and sales have stagnated, according to industry reports.

Hoots
Hooters opened a fast-casual location with fully clothed servers called Hoots earlier in 2017. Hoots
Part of Hooters' struggles are tied to the sales slump that is hitting most sit-down causal-dining chains. But a lack of interest in waitresses' cleavage — especially when there are breastaurants like Twin Peaks promising more scandalous experiences elsewhere— likely isn't helping.

Hooters has struggled to win over millennials for some time now. In 2012, the chain attempted to revamp its image with updated decor and new menu items to attract more millennial and female customers.

"For years they've only been working toward Generation X, but now they need to try to get millennials to come through the doors," Darren Tristano of food industry consulting company Technomic told Time in 2012.

In light of the decline of breasts' influence in America, it comes as no surprise that Hooters has been emphasizing catering and opened up a fast-casual location with fully clothed servers— women and men.

While porn habits may change, millennials still love chicken wings.

Millenials aren't eating cereal because it's too much work

Why aren't millennials eating cereal? Apparently, it's just too much work.
Almost 40% of millennials surveyed by Mintel said that cereal was an inconvenient breakfast choice, because they have to clean up after eating it, reports the New York Times.

Instead, younger consumers are turning to convenient options with minimal cleanup that can be eaten on the go, from yogurt to fast-food breakfast sandwiches.

Cereal sales dropped 5% from 2009 to 2014, despite the fact that more Americans are eating breakfast than ever before.

"Cereal used to be the only breakfast option," Andrew Shripka, Kellogg's associate director of brand marketing, told Business Insider. "There's a lot more to choose from than there ever used to be."

The cereal slump is finally turning around, with Kellogg reporting its first positive quarter for breakfast food sales in 2½ years in February. However, the New York Times notes that some of this turnaround is not driven by cereal being eaten for breakfast, but instead being consumed as an ingredient in meals throughout the day — a fact that Kellogg is leaning into.

"We are now seeing in the US over 30% of cereal consumed outside the breakfast occasion; several years ago it was just 20%," Kellogg CEO John Bryant said in the company's November Investor Day, where Kellogg served "Kickin' Crunch" — Special K Protein Flakes mixed with yogurt, avocado, and cayenne pepper. "People add different fruits, soy milk, coconut milk, cow's milk, whatever it might be."

Kellogg has partnered with trendy celebrity chefs such as Milk Bar's Christina Tosi and Mission Chinese Food's Danny Bowien to create Instagram-friendly cereal-based creations.

The creation of these eye-popping dishes indirectly addresses millennials' distaste for cereal: that it's just not worth the inconvenience.

Millennials don't mind expanding energy on their food. Customers will wait in line for hours for Instagram hits like rainbow bagels— they can theoretically spend thirty seconds washing a bowl.

The issue is the return on investment. No one is going to Instagram a simple bowl of cereal, and it's easy to find a cup of yogurt, piece of fruit, or fast-food sandwich to eat on the go.

However, if cereal can fulfill millennials' cravings for social media affirmation, making (and cleaning up) a bowl of Corn Flakes is suddenly worth the minor inconvenience. At least, that's what Kellogg is banking on to attract younger customers, as cereal moves from breakfast staple to "inconvenient" treat.


Millennials could be a problem for America's most iconic motorcycle brand

Harley-Davidson, one of the world's most iconic motorcycle brands, is struggling.
On Wednesday, the investment management firm Alliance Bernstein downgraded its rating of the company from "outperform" to "market perform" in a note to investors, CNBC's Thomas Franck reported.

Motorcycle sales at Harley-Davidson, which represents about half of the US big-bike market, were down 1.6 percent overall in 2016 versus the year before. U.S. sales fell 3.9 percent.

The company shipped 262,221 motorcycles overall, which fell short of expectations of 264,000-269,000 units.

Alliance Bernstein cited the millennial generation as a key contributor in the brand's demise.

"Our data suggests the younger Gen Y population is adopting motorcycling at a far lower rate than prior generations," AB analyst David Beckel said in the note. "Gen Y's are aging into the important 'pre-family' cohort of riders and Boomers are increasingly handing over their keys to the smaller Gen X population."

Millennials have surpassed Baby Boomers in numbers to become the largest generation pool in the US. As Business Insider has previously reported, these 18 to 35-year-olds grew up during a recession, which has impacted their spending habits.

"I think we have got a very significant psychological scar from this great recession," Morgan Stanley analyst Kimberly Greenberger told Business Insider. "One in every five households at the time were severely negatively impacted by that event. And, if you think about the children in that house and how the length and depth of that recession really impacted people, I think you have an entire generation with permanently changed spending habits."

Millennials are killing a $1 billion diet staple

Forget about the fall of cereal— another breakfast item is in trouble as health trends shift among young Americans.
Light yogurt sales fell 8.5% in the past year ending in late September, dropping $200 million from roughly $1.2 billion to $1 billion, according to Nielsen data. Wider yogurt industry sales declined 1.5%, the fourth consecutive year of falling sales.

The fall of light yogurt, once a diet staple, is bad news for companies selling the dairy item.

General Mills, the maker of Yoplait and three smaller yogurt brands, reported on Wednesday that net sales declined 7% to $3.9 billion in the first quarter. Much of that decline was attributed to plunging yogurt sales, which fell a whopping 15% in the quarter.

"We continue to see challenging trends on our US yogurt business, driven primarily by significant declines on our Yoplait Light and Greek 100 product lines," General Mills CEO Ken Powell said in an earnings call on Wednesday. "Consumers of traditional light yogurts are buy yogurts in this segments are pivoting away from this segment to products that provide more satiety, like Greek yogurts."

Yoplait Greek 100
Greek 100 sales fell 33% in the first quarter compared to the same quarter last year.Yoplait
As a result, General Mills is renovating 60% of its yogurt portfolio this year. For example, the company is reworking Yoplait Greek 100, a light Greek yogurt product, to include more protein and less sugar. The new take on light Greek yogurt should hit the shelves by January — or, as Powell calls it, "weight management season."

General Mills is also doubling down on yogurt categories that are growing, like organic yogurt, which grew 12.6% in the last year, according to Nielsen data. The company is now rolling out organic Annie's and Liberté yogurts in the US.

"While light yogurt is on the decline, older households — particularly 65+ — are still buying more than their fair share of light yogurts," Jordan Rost, the vice president of consumer insights at Nielsen, told Business Insider. "On the other hand, organic yogurts tend to appeal to younger households, particularly families with young children."

The decline in light yogurt can be traced to a growing demand for natural, protein-rich foods that fill up health-conscious consumers, instead of simply low-calorie and low-fat options. That's been a huge help for Greek yogurt, which appeals to customers seeking a filling option packed with protein.

On the flip side of the rise of protein and organic options is the fall of sugar.


Low fat-diets were the norm in the US in the '80s and '90s. As food makers worked to cut fat from products, they began replacing it with another ingredient: sugar. As a result, "light" yogurts were often packed with sugar, yet advertised as low-fat therefore healthy choices.

Greek yogurt
Greek and organic yogurts fit into younger customers' conception of health better than light yogurt.mary_thompson/Flickr
Now, the pendulum is swinging in the other direction.

Health-conscious consumers are increasingly ditching the low-fat diets, thanks to the rise of "good fats" and research linking sugar to weight gain. Instead of fat being seen as public enemy No. 1, artificial ingredients are more likely to be demonized, sometimes without scientific proof.

Younger consumers especially are adopting this new understanding of health — and ditching light yogurts.


"This is a perfect example of the distinction between 20th and 21st century health and wellness appeals," says Rost. "While there's still an opportunity for 'light' products for some consumers, younger consumers are gravitating towards foods that are at least perceived to be more naturally healthy."

In other words, American millennials have a new understanding of healthy — and light yogurt isn't included.

Blame millennials: Diamond jewelry business in a rough spot

Diamonds may be losing their shine.

Retail sales of diamonds are slowing globally as a younger generation of consumers appears to be less attached to traditional diamond jewelry than their parents and grandparents, according to industry analysts.

"Millennial consumers have distinctive preferences, which in many ways diverge from previous generations," Bank of America Merrill Lynch analyst Ashley Wallace said in a research note this month. "They tend to be more value conscious, more concerned with sustainability and ethical production, and often value unique and individual products versus items that are standardized and mass-produced."
They are also marrying later. The median age for millennial women to marry is 27 and for men 29, according to Pew Research. That's a challenge for the diamond business.

The bridal category, including engagement or wedding ring purchases, represents as much as half of the total merchandise sold by some of the major U.S.-based jewelers. 
And when they do marry, some consumers are opting for more gemstone engagement rings, such as sapphires, or fashion jewelry with lab-grown diamonds, according to industry analysts. Synthetic diamonds can cost 30 percent less than mined diamonds.

"Millennials don't want what all their friends have and don't want what they've been told to have," said Amanda Gizzi, a spokeswoman for Jewelers of America, a trade association with more than 8,000 member jewelers. 
In an attempt to counteract the trend, the Diamond Producers Association, a global trade group of seven of the world's leading diamond producers, launched an advertising campaign to win over the hearts, minds and wallets of millennials. Its slogan is "real is rare, real is a diamond." This effort follows the relaunch last fall of the iconic "a diamond is forever" advertising by De Beers, the world's largest diamond marketer.

"The challenge is that diamond jewelry appears to be low on the buying lists among so-called millennials."
-Des Kilalea, analyst, RBC Capital Markets
"The role of the DPA is to focus on ensuring a strong, vibrant demand for our diamonds," association CEO Jean-Marc Lieberherr said. "That's really what underpins the 'real is rare' strategy, which is to connect at a deep emotional level with millennials, who are an important group now. That's the biggest generation in the U.S. and within a few years they'll be the biggest consuming generation. They are also the generation getting married, and the bridal or kind of romantic engagement cachet is still the cornerstone of this industry."

Buffett's investing basics. Warren Buffett outlines the main investment principles he practices.


Lieberherr added that millennials "really relate a lot to what a diamond is and the idea of a diamond, but a little less to all the rituals and conventions that are associated with it." He said the new marketing campaign includes social media well as radio and television.

"While the Diamond Producers Association has put the stimulation of demand growth high on its agenda, the challenge is that diamond jewelry appears to be low on the buying lists among so-called millennials," RBC Capital Markets analyst Des Kilalea said in a research note published this month.

BofAML estimates worldwide retail sales of diamonds will grow just 2 percent this year, well below the 7 percent compound annual growth rate from 2009-2014. The U.S. remains core to the diamond industry with an estimated 42 percent share of the global market for diamonds, according to DPA figures.
The U.S. market is actually what's helped maintain the overall worldwide growth rate in recent years. The Chinese and Indian markets, which were the strongest engines of growth from 2010 to 2014, have slowed.

Meanwhile, RBC expects diamond "supply will exceed demand until at least 2020." Also, their research suggests that the "growth in synthetics will become an even greater challenge to natural diamonds" in the future.
Synthetic diamonds are a small fraction of the total amount of diamonds sold today, said Edahn Golan, an independent diamond analyst based in Israel. He doesn't see the lab-grown diamonds as an immediate threat to the traditionally mined diamonds.

"When you propose to your girlfriend and want a symbol of your enduring love, the chance is you won't propose with a lab-grown diamond," said Golan. "Not a big sign of affection — kind of cold. They are not capturing the bridal market. The lab grown diamonds as it looks today … is a very good niche that fits fashion jewelry."

Lab-produced diamonds are primarily made in Malaysia, Singapore, China and Russia, although there are some U.S.-based companies such as California-based Diamond Foundry, a company backed by Silicon Valley investors and actor Leonardo DiCaprio, whose movies include the 2006 film "Blood Diamond."

In the year-to-date period, shares of major diamond sellers such as Signet Jewelers, Tiffany & Co. and Blue Nile have sharply underperformed the broad market by falling 19 percent or more.

About 50 percent of the Signet Jewelers' total merchandise sales are tied to the bridal category. Company spokesman David Bouffard said the jeweler does not carry synthetics because "current research has shown that our consumers significantly prefer natural diamonds in fine jewelry."

Josh Holland, a spokesman for Blue Nile, said the online diamond jeweler has no plans to sell lab-grown diamonds but is "looking at them and evaluating what the market might be."

Millennials' banking habits suggest deeper branch cuts are coming

In a new study by BI Intelligence, we surveyed 1,500 millennials (ages 18-34) to explore how they use physical and digital banking channels. The banking habits of millennials, who compose the largest share of both the US and employed populations, are an important indicator for determining the future of retail banks.
Our data shows that banks are failing to draw this key demographic into their branches.

Here are the key points:

Nearly three-quarters of millennials with a bank account visit a branch once or less per month.
Just under 40% of millennials do not visit physical banks. Only 38% of US millennials use physical banks to perform banking activities other than using an ATM.
One-third of millennials go only to physical bank locations once per month or less. About 26% of millennials visit a branch less than once per month, and an additional 10% visit branches approximately once per month.
Only 6% are visiting a branch on a weekly basis. 6% of millennials go to a branch four or more times per month.
The data helps to explain why banks across the US have been scaling back their branch networks. Millennials are already the largest generation and a target market for banks. Since only a small percentage of millennials use their bank branches often, it makes sense for banks to increase investment in other banking channels like mobile.





In April, Elle writer Justine Harman spotted a classic, nylon box-shaped Kate Spade bag on eBay.
The bag, she noted, was knocked down from its original price of $250 to a staggeringly low $39.99. (That particular discounted bag has now been sold, but remaining "vintage" Kate Spade items are still marked down pretty low.)

While this discovery delighted some millennial women who grew up begging their parents for one of these handbags, others might have noticed that this dramatic price dip is indicative of something bigger: The designer handbag industry is losing its luster.

As with all trends, there's an ebb and flow. Not everything can stay relevant forever. Kate Spade has adjusted to a more colorful, bright, fun look, but the company's offshoots, Kate Spade Saturday, targeted towards millennials, and Jack Spade, which tapped into the men's industry, shuttered all their doors in the winter, The Wall Street Journal reported.



Women have abandoned a longtime wardrobe staple — and that's terrifying news for Michael Kors, Coach, and Kate Spade
In April, Bloomberg noted that Michael Kors was the top handbag for teens, replacing Coach. Kate Spade was in third place.

But Michael Kors' sales growth has been eroding, and prospects do not look good for the brand.

The brand's inventory has risen, suggesting that the brand's products aren't flying off shelves.

Michael Kors rose to popularity because of its handbags. Facebook
It might be because the brand is too popular — or too widely purchased. This is in part due to the presence of outlets — which Michael Kors has aplenty — which can ultimately be brand killers. Outlets devalue a brand, encourage people to not buy at full price, and make luxury items too accessible.


Further, widespread popularity is the "kiss of death for trendy fashion brands, particularly those positioned in the up-market younger consumer sectors," industry expert Robin Lewis wrote on his blog. Lewis compares Michael Kors to Tommy Hilfiger, which reached its peak in the late 1990s.

Michael Kors is considered an aspirational brand, with consumers paying a premium for its label. Once everyone has the product, it is no longer considered cool.

Other brands that have experienced this phenomenon include Juicy Couture, Jordache, and Coach — which Michael Kors dethroned as the most popular high-end handbag brands for teens, as Bloomberg has reported.

But Coach's woes are undeniable. CNBC reported the bizarre disparity for Coach: Sales still dipped amid shares rising. On a recent earnings call, CEO Victor Luis attributed this to how the brand has been cutting back on flash sales.

Sweeping up shoe brand Stuart Weitzman at least helped slightly; "the acquisition of Stuart Weitzman in early May contributed $43 million to fourth-quarter and full-year revenue," CFO Jane Hamilton Nielsen said on the call.

But it might not just be handbags that are at a loss. This pattern is indicative of a much larger trend.


After all, millennials spend their money differently than the generations preceding them did. Old-school retailers like Gap have suffered compared to fast-fashion companies like Zara and H&M, which allure millennials with their quick turnaround and low-price. Traditional retail has been struggling as a result.

And those traditional retailers who attempt to cater to millennials instead of baby boomers or Gen Xers face huge possible risks: Millennials don't spend that much money as it is. Saddled with debt, this generation isn't spending money on luxury items. And by alienating consumers who do have money, retailers inadvertently put themselves in a precarious situation. Who will buy from them?

Hilary Stout illustrated this problem in The New York Times in June: "After all, the millennial generation has less wealth and more debt than other generations did at the same age, thanks to student loans and the lingering effects of the deep recession," she wrote.

And Forrester researchers highlighted in a study that baby boomers, between the ages of 51 and 69, are the "biggest spenders" because they have extra cash from decades of saving and investing — something millennials just can't afford.

Additionally, millennials are flat out not spending on apparel. A study by Morgan Stanley highlighted that millennials are instead choosing to spend money on expenses like rent, cellphones, and services.


Macy's CFO, Karen Hoguet, even blamed Netflix on the sales slumps. "I think part of that is the customers are buying other things, whether the electronics, cable services, Netflix, whatever," Hoguet said.


Ultimately, there's a limited market for selling clothing — let alone designer handbags.

The biggest threat to the industry could be "HENRYs"— a term luxury expert Pam Danziger coined, standing for "high earners not rich yet." These people make over $100,000, and, as she told Bloomberg, are "making very careful decisions" when it comes to spending. But because they're not picking up designer products, the luxury brands are feeling the burn.

"Today, those people feel decidedly middle class and not at all luxury class," Danziger told Marketplace.org.

Which begs the question — why buy luxury items? Especially when you can sweep your favorite items from the aughts on eBay for under $40.

Then again, while some of Kate Spade's bags are relics of the past on the internet, its more fashion-forward bags are thriving — proving that the handbag industry can, in fact, save itself from an ominous fate.


"In wholesale, our business was primarily driven by strong performance in handbags, with data showing a continuing increase in market share, representing a key opportunity for growth as we build on our still modest penetration of market share," CEO Craig Leavitt said on a recent earnings call for the company.


Millennials are killing gyms, too

When 34-year-old Brie Manakul’s favorite fitness instructors started ditching her gym in favor of bright, shiny new boutique studios, she knew it was time to jump ship, too.

“I started to see the really good teachers leave the gym, migrating to Barry’s Bootcamp or SoulCycle,” says Manakul, so she did the same after nearly a decade of gym membership.

Manakul, who lives in Chelsea and works in media, is part of a stream of millennials who’ve quit the gym, opting instead for boutique studio classes, online streaming services, running clubs, CrossFit gyms, Kayla Itsines workouts and other exercise options.

A decade ago, the fitness industry was dominated by neighborhood gyms and a handful of specialty studios. Now, boutique studios represent a larger-than-ever slice of the fitness pie — 42 percent of the market in 2014, a 100 percent increase over 2013, according to the International Health, Racquet & Sportsclub Association.

And there’s no lack of demand for the new spots. IHRSA’s 2016 Health Club Consumer Report found that while Gen-Xers are content with treadmills and resistance machines, millennials prefer specialized classes such as yoga and cross-training.


Millennials are flocking to boutique studios like ChaiseFitness.Stephen Yang
Now, gyms are trying to become more like the smaller studios that millennials are after. Take New York Sports Club: The classic city gyms are rebranding this fall, undergoing a transformation to make them feel more personalized and offering classes that are more appealing to picky millennials.

Michelle Ryan, New York Sports Clubs’ chief marketing officer, says the turnaround began after the company took stock of what millennials really want from a workout.

“They want camaraderie, to feel like they’re part of a neighborhood,” Ryan tells The Post. “We found that people wanted a little more of a boutique feel, and that means personal attention.”

Other gyms are adding out-there classes that appeal to the demographic’s wandering eyes. New York Health & Racquet Club now offers of-the-moment classes — think Caribbean Heat and Viking Workout (complete with sledgehammers) — alongside more traditional spinning and yoga sessions.

But try as gyms might, they’re struggling to recruit customers who are used to being able to pick and choose what they participate in, without commitment.

“Millennials don’t want to be tied down,” says Megan Smyth, the founder and CEO of FitReserve, a service that lets members book 10 boutique studio classes a month for $149 a month. “It’s a spontaneous demographic.”

That was the case for Matt, a 32-year-old finance worker who declined to give his last name for professional reasons. After bouncing between Equinox and other gyms for several years, he finally ditched the gym a year ago and now uses FitReserve. “Your schedule changes, your life changes and you’re kind of all over the city,” says Matt, a Manhattan resident. “Most New Yorkers move every few years, and to be locked into a gym is inconvenient.”

‘We found that people wanted a little more of a boutique feel, and that means personal attention.’
 - NYSC chief marketing officer Michelle Ryan on customers' needs
And as millennials age and move up the economic ladder, they become choosier about how they spend their newly acquired money. For Lillian Kye, a 30-year-old fashion account manager who lives in Clinton Hill, that meant ditching her inexpensive gym in favor of pricier workout classes that felt like a better investment.

“I used to belong to Planet Fitness — it was relatively cheap, but it was such a waste of money,” she says. “There were months at a time when I couldn’t go to the gym [due to my job], and that was money wasted.”

NYSC admits they’ve struggled with this preference for a la carte pricing. “People want to pay for what they use,” says Ryan.

And so Kye’s swapped the gym for two or three weekly dance-cardio classes by trainer Nicole Winhoffer, which costs more monthly than her gym membership but is more cost-effective in her mind. She regularly brings friends along to catch up and often hobnobs with others in the fashion industry. “It’s like a mini-networking event — it feels like a social activity,” she says.

Plus, signing up for the pricey classes “keeps me accountable,” says Kye, because most boutique studios charge a cancellation fee if students bail at the last minute.

Since she ditched the gym a year ago, Manakul estimates that the classes she now attends — a mix of Nicole Winhoffer, Barry’s Bootcamp and SoulCycle — cost about the same as a membership at Equinox.

An added bonus? The camaraderie she says was lacking at the gym.

“If you don’t show up, it’s like, ‘Where were you? We didn’t see you,’?” says Manakul. “My birthday was last week, and the teacher brought cake pops to celebrate after [a Nicole Winhoffer] class. I couldn’t imagine that at a gym.”

For Winhoffer, that emotional connection is just one more reason why clients flock to her classes.

“Most often, people who come to my class are working through something,” she says. “Millennials want to feel, and I don’t think our culture has an outlet to support [those] feelings.”


Will The Millennial Generation Kill Home Depot?

For many Americans, home ownership and improvement is an essential part of our country’s identity. Yet, the millennial generation is reportedly rejecting this traditional view, a dubious trend for brands like Home Depot HD -0.74% and Lowe’s Home Improvement.

First, let’s take a look at the data. The most recent news from the U.S. Census’ Housing and Vacancy Report states that home ownership for adults younger than 35 is the lowest in recorded history. Why aren’t millennials buying homes and investing in home goods? There are three economic and social factors at play:

As it’s been well-reported, millennials are carrying an overwhelming amount of student debt. Students who graduated in 2014 average $33,000 of debt, more than double the amount borrowers paid 20 years ago. These financial burdens make them less-than-ideal candidates for loans.

Many millennials saw their parents impacted by the 2008 housing bubble. Every generation before millennials were raised to believe that a home was a sound investment—one of the most important parts of the American dream. This generation seems to be the first in many decades that doubts the rosy real estate picture.



Millennials are redefining the American family. Millennials are delaying marriage and childbirth at rates never seen before. This cultural shift will have a near-term impact on housing: millennials may not need the same space, permanence, and practicality that most Americans want out of their housing. That doesn't mean they will not have children in the near term and then purchase more affordable and "useful" homes.

So, all is not lost. Big box home improvement brands can make shifts in their marketing efforts to continue to attract this important consumer group.

 English: The Home Depot in Knightdale, North C...
The Home Depot (Photo credit: Wikipedia)

Tip #1: Nurture Early:

Because they are waiting later to invest in real estate, many millennials are still renters. That leaves them limited on what they can buy to improve their living spaces. But Lowe's and Home Depot shouldn't throw the baby out with the bath water. They should work to cultivate a relationship with millennial renters early, as there will inevitably be a large group of millennials that do buy homes. Becoming the go-to resource for things like cleaning supplies, shelf liners, and organization tools shows millennial consumers they can buy basic household items (not just 2x4s) at home stores—instead of everyday basics mainstays like Target TGT -0.71% and Wal-Mart.

Tip #2: Budget Home Owners:

Millennials, particularly millennial parents, are more financially conservative than many in older generations. They've seen the housing bubble, the dot-com bust, and the Great Recession. So, when they eventually do buy a home, and they will buy homes, it's with a focus on a different set of values. They rarely overspend or extend themselves. This is a great opportunity for Lowe's and Home Depot to focus on their private-label brands. These brands tell millennials they are getting a good deal, without having to compromise too much on quality. Paint in particular could be a huge opportunity, considering it’s one of the cheapest ways to improve the interior of a new home. By shifting the focus to house brands like Behr paint, or Husky tools, Home Depot can make inroads with frugal millennials.

The Millennial Neighborhood: 

It’s trendy to report that millennials are flocking to the urban cores. Yet, the data paints a different picture. In this thorough analysis, we see that millennials are very strongly centered on the suburbs. This is vital information for Lowe’s and Home Depot for two reasons: first, when Marketing to Millennials®, authenticity is everything. If big box home brands create marketing images that showcase millennials as nothing more than urban hipsters, they will immediately fall flat. Second, these home leaders need to realize that millennials (whether renters or owners) may be just as interested in grills and lawnmowers as their parents are.

One Final Technology Note:

It would be easy to assume that millennials would be first in line for new in-home technology. And while Nest is currently a darling of the financial and tech world, my bet is that this brand has challenges with millennials.  Remember that millennials don’t view technology as special unless it’s useful. Nest can certainly make a case that it solves everyday problems, but at $200 a pop, millennials may be slow to jump. Home Depot and Lowe’s would be smart to push simple, basic home solutions.


Millennial generation could kill the NFL

Many protective mothers and fathers of Millennials aren't allowing their kids to play tackle football because of health risks. These attitudes could close the NFL’s pipeline to many talented players. But these concerns also have the potential to change the violent NFL culture for the better.
 The emergence of the Millennial generation poses an existential threat to the future of the National Football League.

Professional football has been America’s favorite spectator sport since 1972 when baby boomers became the most important TV audience demographic. Steve Sabol, the genius behind NFL Films that helped to popularize the NFL in the 1960s, captured the drama and danger of pro football with his slow motion films of big violent hits backed by stirring music.

Pro football, depicted by Mr. Sabol as a confrontation between good and evil in which there can be only one winner, matched the values of baby boomers a half century ago. But this focus is not as appealing to the Millennial generation with its focus on win-win solutions and an instinct for avoiding confrontation.



Millennials (young people 9-30 years old) were reared by their parents in a highly sheltered and protected manner. The generation’s arrival was signaled by “baby on board” bumper stickers and AMBER Alerts, major child protection legislation and “helicopter parents.” 

Because of the way they were reared, Millennials are the most risk averse in recent American history. Concerned about the safety of their “special” children, the parents of many Millennials have demonstrated a strikingly fearful reaction to a series of reports about the devastating impact playing in the NFL has had on many former players.

According to GamesOver.org, a group “dedicated to serving and meeting the transitional needs of players when they leave the game,” 65 percent of NFL players retire with permanent injuries, while the suicide rate of former NFL players is six times the national average, possibly due in part to a brain disorder that researchers say impacts those who have suffered multiple concussions. 

So far, more than 3,000 former NFL players have filed more than 100 lawsuits against the league for concussion-related conditions. If they are combined in a single class action, these suits could cost the NFL millions of dollars and possibly threaten it with bankruptcy. Moreover, in each of the past two seasons about 15 percent of those on NFL rosters (270 in 2010 and 266 in 2011) received concussions. And already in the first month of this season, at least two starting quarterbacks have been sidelined by concussions.  

The NFL has taken note of the threat and is working to reduce the impact of concussion-related injuries through improved equipment, especially helmets that provide enhanced protection. It is also working toward better coaching that teaches safer tackling and blocking techniques. And the league is developing new rules or stronger enforcement of existing ones that prohibit or reduce blows to the head.

But there are some who doubt the effectiveness of those efforts, or even feel that they are incompatible with the brand of a sport that is based on vigorous contact. Still, the NFL Players’ Association has strongly endorsed them.

These changes to improve player safety need to be made quickly if the NFL is to avoid another potentially more serious challenge to its future – the unwillingness of the parents of Millennials to allow their sons to play football.

Most shocking, a number of current and former NFL players – among them quarterbacks Terry Bradshaw, Kurt Warner, Drew Brees, and Troy Aikman and linebacker Bart Scott, famed for his hard-hitting style – say that, due to its dangers, they would bar their sons from playing the game in which they earned fame and fortune.

Perspectives like this have the potential to hamper or even halt participation in the programs that develop future NFL players. Because, other than a Canadian variation, American-style football is only played in the United States, there are no replacement athletes in the pipeline for football from foreign countries as there are for other professional sports.

Millennials were reared by their parents to be an egalitarian, group-oriented cohort, one that believes the welfare and success of individuals is best assured by maximizing the welfare and success of the entire group. It’s no coincidence, then, that high schools and colleges prohibited the taunting of opponents and exaggerated celebration of individual achievements on the gridiron just as Millennials were beginning to play football at those levels.

Perhaps Millennials will bring their group-oriented values to the NFL, producing a kinder, gentler version of pro football just in time to save the league from its boomer-dominated approach.

If so, the version of football that Steve Sabol’s films made so popular a half century ago will become a thing of the past. But, if the NFL doesn’t take the steps necessary to convince Millennials and their parents that their game is safe to play, it will take much more than brilliant films to enable the league to maintain its sports leadership position in the decades to come.


Why millennials are snubbing jobs in the oil industry

Like many industries today, the oil industry is trying to sell its many job opportunities to the fastest growing portion of the global workforce: Millennials.
But unlike any other industry, oil and gas is facing more challenges in persuading the environmentally-conscious Millennials that oil is "cool".

During the Super Bowl earlier this year, the American Petroleum Institute (API) launched an ad geared toward Millennials, who now make up the largest generation in the U.S. labor force.

"This ain't your daddy's oil", the ad says, in what API described as "a modern look at how oil is integrated into products consumers use now and in the future supported by bold visuals."

Despite its pitch to speak the Millennials' language and reach out to the elusive generation, the ad sparked anger with many consumers and viewers.

Millennials continue to have the most negative opinion toward the oil industry compared to all other industries, and they don't see a career in oil and gas as their top choice of a workplace. The oil industry's talent scouting and recruiting methods of the past are failing to reach Millennials, who want their work to have a positive impact on society, various studies and polls have found—a rather big ask for the oil industry.

This failure to reach the group that makes up the largest portion of today's workforce—which now surpasses Generation X—points to a huge problem for the oil sector, as Baby Boomers move into retirement in droves.


Not only are Millennials snubbing oil and gas because of its negative image, they also seek different job perks than previous generations sought, and in this regard, the oil industry will need to do more as it becomes increasingly obvious that Millennials want different things than what oil executives think they want.

A total of 14 percent of Millennials say they would not want to work in the oil and gas industry because of its negative image—the highest percentage of any industry, McKinsey said in September 2016.

Young people see the industry as dirty, difficult, and dangerous, according to an EY survey published last month. EY's survey polled Millennials—the 20-to-35-year-olds today—as well as Generation Z coming after them, and found that younger generations "question the longevity of the industry as they view natural gas and oil as their parents' fuels. Further, they primarily see the industry's careers as unstable, blue-collar, difficult, dangerous and harmful to society."
In addition, two out of three teens believe the oil and gas industry causes problems rather than solves them, the survey showed.

Canada's Cannabis Boom is creating a $30 Billion Investment Opportunity for investors and this small company could explode upwards in the next few weeks as investors start to flock to the space.

So 'not your daddy's oil' is not sinking in with Millennials and Generation Z, and with many of them, it never will, despite the oil lobbies' marketing efforts to try to make it sound like an attractive career path.

According to executives polled by EY, the top three drivers for young people would be salary (72 percent), opportunity to use the latest technology (43 percent), and a good work-life balance (38 percent). But young people—although they are also prioritizing salary—have other views on what they look for in a job. Salary is still the top priority at 56 percent, but a close second comes good work-life balance (49 percent), with job stability and on-the-job happiness equally important at 37 percent.

Executives are underestimating the importance of work-life balance and stability for Millennials, while overestimating the allure of technology as a factor. It's not surprising that Millennials are not as attracted to the opportunity to use new tech as oil executives believe they are - Millennials generally don't see technology as a perk, they take it for granted.

Moreover, Millennials don't see the oil and gas industry as innovative - a major driver of career choice among this generation. According to a recent report by Accenture, "Despite evidence to the contrary, many Millennials believe the sector is lacking innovation, agility and creativity, as well as opportunities to engage in meaningful work. In fact, only 2 percent of U.S. college graduates consider the oil and gas industry their top choice for employment."


Accenture is warning that 'the talent well has run dry' and said:

"We believe the growing workforce deficit will, in fact, be a greater barrier to oil and gas companies' upturn success than any deficits that might exist in capital, equipment or supplies."

The oil and gas industry is losing the competition for talent recruitment to industries that are more appealing to Millennials, and U.S. oil and gas firms will face the talent crunch first, according to Accenture.

"Any mature industry has to think about the fact that there's a new sheriff in town with new values, new spending habits," Jeff Fromm, an expert in marketing to American Millennials, told Bloomberg.

And if the oil and gas industry wants to get this 'new sheriff in town' on board, it needs to profoundly change recruitment strategies and talent sourcing. But with the negative image that is probably set to become even more negative—despite oil organizations' marketing efforts—oil and gas has a huge workforce problem looming.
